# Newspaper Deduplication
This is a repository in order to track my work at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM), particularly related to newspaper deduplication. The main problem this project aims to solve is the duplicate wire stories present in the USHMM's History Unfolded (HUF) dataset of newspaper articles. 

During the Holocaust and to this day, newspaper articles published are often wire stories: articles written by newspaper syndicates and sold to local presses. That way local presses can have access to international news for the readers to digest. As such, when History Unfolded asks its citizen historians to find articles in their local newspapers regarding any particular event during the Holocaust, many of the articles they find are wire stories of the Associated Press or United Press. These articles usually different in ways such as headline, subheadline, inclusion or exclusion of parts of the wire story, or page number of publication. However, they all share the same body article (or, at least parts of the same original wire story). While this creates interesting questions surrounding headline and other metadata variation for any particular wire story, the actual text body of the articles are duplicates. For researchers who are interested in looking at distinct wire stories across the country, it is difficult to engage with the dataset as many of the articles are duplicates.

This project aims to use NLP and Machine Learning in order to try and computationally identify and categorize distinct wire stories. The intended pipeline goes as follows: Newspapers for any event in HUF will first be sorted into two buckets, whether or not they have Newspapers.com embeddings. Newspapers.com have their own Javascript widget that has an OCR function that will render the text. Otherwise, we will need to manually OCR the image files and grab the text from there. Next, I will try a variety of different NLP models that can computationally vectorize and cluster the article body texts. This way, for any given set of newspaper articles, we can identify the clusters as newspaper articles being from the same wire story, given that they share the same master copy.
